Welcome, brothers and sisters to JW Broadcasting.
In this month's program, we'll learn ways to deal with worry and anxiety.
Here are some highlights.
From childhood, this brother founded a challenge to attend meetings.
Go to school, hold a job, and even leave his home each morning.
What can we learn from his experience to help us cope with our anxieties one day at a time?
These two sisters have worked shoulder to shoulder in full-time service for more than 60 years.
We'll learn what has helped them to remain joyful despite everyday struggles and unexpected trials.
Have you ever wondered what motivates our brothers and sisters to make themselves available for Bethel service?
We'll hear from ones who are serving at Bethel, and we'll learn how to prepare and qualify for this special form of full-time service.
There's much to enjoy in this May 2019 edition of JW Broadcasting.
Do you sometimes feel completely overwhelmed when life's problems cause you anxiety?
Just trying to provide the necessities for one's family can lead to anxiety.
At the same time, you might be dealing with a chronic or life-threatening illness,
caring for a sick or elderly relative, grieving the death of a loved one, loneliness, a natural disaster,
or maybe you're struggling with the devastating effects of past or present abuse.
Now, you firmly believe that God's kingdom will fix these problems, but that's in the future.
What about today?
Perhaps you feel like David, who prayed at Psalm 13 and verse 2,
how long will I have anxious concern with grief in my heart each day?
A sister who has struggled with anxiety for many years wrote this,
anxiety robs me of sleep, impacts my health, affects the way I treat others,
and makes me want to give up. She added,
anxiety is like a monster that lives in my body somewhere between my heart and my belly.
I cannot wait for Jehovah to kill that monster in the new world.
But until then, the monster snarls and tears at my insides and tries to take over my life.
Can you identify with her feelings?
We often hear a person say concerning anxiety,
I'm just trying to take it one day at a time.
But one brother put it this way.
I try to take it one day at a time, but sometimes several days attack me at once.
For so many of us, anxiety is a daily struggle.
If you battle with anxiety, please know this.
You are not alone. Do not give up the fight.
Jehovah and Jesus are aware of the anxieties that weigh on your mind and that are deep in your heart.
The governing body knows that living in this system of things is especially hard to deal with.
So the theme chosen for this program is deal with anxiety one day at a time.
First, what is anxiety?
In the Christian Greek scriptures, the word anxious occurs 19 times.
The first occurrence is in Jesus' sermon on the Mount.
Now Jesus knew that people worried about how to provide for their family.
So had Matthew, chapter 6, and verse 25, he gave this wise counsel.
On this account, I say to you, stop being anxious about your life as to what you eat or what you will drink.
Or about your body as to what you will wear.
Does not life mean more than food and the body than clothing?
The study Bible note for verse 25 says,
the degree term for anxious can refer to worry that divides a person's mind and distracts him, robbing him of joy.
At Luke 12, verse 29, Jesus says to stop being an anxious suspense or to stop worrying.
The study note here says that the Greek word for anxious suspense was used to refer to ships being tossed at sea.
It says that Jesus used it figuratively for being anxious or unsettled as if tossed about or wavering because of doubt and anxiety.
By saying, stop being anxious, Jesus recognizes that anxiety is already in progress.
He is very aware of our imperfect nature.
He knows that we tend to bring our worries from yesterday, the would haves, could haves, and should haves, and our imagined worries about tomorrow, the what ifs to today.
But ask yourself, how often have I word myself sick about what might happen tomorrow only to find that tomorrow wasn't nearly as bad as I feared it would be?
Jesus also knows that anxiety can have real, sometimes painful consequences.
It can stop us from making spiritual progress.
Over thinking and over analyzing our problems can literally shut us down.
How though can we stop being anxious? What's the antidote?
Let's consider four practical things we can do.
First, rely on Jehovah and take one day at a time.
This is exactly what Jesus prescribed for us at Matthew chapter 6, verses 33 and 34.
Keep on then seeking first the kingdom and his righteousness, and all these other things will be added to you.
So, never be anxious about the next day for the next day will have its own anxieties.
Each day has enough of its own troubles.
Verse 34 has a study note telling us that undue anxiety about what may happen in the future can adversely affect a person's relationship with God, causing him to rely on his own wisdom rather than on God's.
So what's the lesson?
Instead of relying on ourselves, rely on Jehovah and take one day at a time.
A cross reference to Matthew 6, 34 takes us to Exodus 16, verse 4.
In this account, Jehovah provided the Israelites with enough mana for every day of their 40-year trek.
Could Jehovah have provided a week's worth of mana?
A month's worth, a year's worth, of course.
So why did he only provide enough for each day? Well, think about it.
When they stepped out of their tents each morning, there was no question whether there would be mana on the ground or not, and there was no question where it came from.
Jehovah never failed to provide for their needs, not even for one day.
They also knew from the past that Jehovah always provided for those who were loyal to him.
We too can look back at how Jehovah provided for his servants.
We can have complete confidence that Jehovah knows exactly what we need when we need it, for today, tomorrow, and for all eternity.
Even if we have such confidence, why do we sometimes continue to feel anxious?
The simple answer, we're imperfect people trying our best to serve Jehovah in Satan's wicked world.
Daily challenges cause anxiety that can make us forget to rely on Jehovah and take one day at a time.
So we need to add our second way to deal with anxiety.
Pour your heart out to Jehovah in earnest prayer.
Read with me the reassuring words at Philippians 4 verses 6 and 7.
Do not be anxious over anything, but in everything by prayer and supplication, along with Thanksgiving, let your petitions be made known to God.
And the peace of God that surpasses all understanding will guard your hearts and your mental powers by means of Christ Jesus.
Paul doesn't simply tell us not to be anxious, but he tells us how.
He said by prayer and supplication, which is earnest and specific prayer.
With what benefit?
The peace of God will guard your hearts.
Guard was a military expression referring to troops assigned to protect a city.
The inhabitants could sleep soundly, knowing that soldiers were guarding them at night.
In a similar way, when we have the peace of God, our hearts and minds can rest.
This can prevent us from being overwhelmed by anxiety or discouragement.
How reassuring are the words of the Psalmist at Psalm 4 and verse 8.
I will lie down and sleep in peace. For you alone, O Jehovah, make me dwell in security.
So when we feel trapped, like there's no way out of our worries, the peace from God gives us hope that there's light at the end of the tunnel.
What though must you do?
Turn your worries into deep, heartfelt prayers.
In fact, at 1 Peter 5 and verse 7, Jehovah invites you to throw all your anxiety on him and leave it with him.
Because he cares for you.
Jehovah is the one person who truly understands how you feel.
He knows every moment of your life, why you feel or react a certain way.
He loves and values you personally, despite your imperfections, your anxieties, your cares and worries.
He not only has the power to help you, he wants to.
Knowing this should move you to pray specifically, express in your deepest emotions, and plead that he grant you peace of mind and heart.
To the extent you do so, 1 Peter 5, 10 promises that he will make you firm.
He will make you strong. He will firmly ground you.
Never underestimate the power of prayer.
Jehovah is always ready to help you one day at a time.
Our third way to deal with anxiety is to read and meditate on God's Word.
Let Jehovah speak to you.
Allow Jehovah's thoughts to become your thoughts.
At Psalm 94-19, notice how the psalmist admitted his own anxiety.
When anxieties overwhelmed me, you comforted and soothed me.
Yes, even servants of God can feel overwhelmed by anxieties, or as one translation says, burden with worries.
That in itself is comforting, that an inspired Bible writer struggled with anxieties.
But Jehovah comforted and soothed him, calming his troubled heart.
God can do the same for us through his inspired word of the Bible.
Remember, the Bible is how Jehovah speaks to us.
Rather than allowing our emotions to run wild, we can learn to focus our mind on upbuilding things,
such as what the Apostle Paul listed at Philippians 4 and verse 8.
Finally, brothers, whatever things are true, whatever things are of serious concern,
whatever things are righteous, whatever things are chased, whatever things are lovable,
whatever things are well spoken of, whatever things are virtuous,
and whatever things are praiseworthy, continue considering these things.
The footnote, to verse 8, shows that considering involves thinking about or meditating on.
We can and should meditate on positive things from the Bible,
replacing negative things that may enter our mind and cause anxiety.
Ask Jehovah to help you to find passages in his word that will sooth your heart.
Ask others what scriptures have calmed their heart during anxious moments.
Make your own personal list, then set aside time to read and meditate on those passages.
Meditation is the doorway to your heart.
Meditation lets God's thoughts affect you on the deepest possible level.
Imagine that Jehovah is speaking directly to you because he is.
Never underestimate the power of God's word, of letting Jehovah speak to you.
Our fourth way to deal with anxiety is to share your feelings with a trusted friend.
Proverbs 12.25 says,
anxiety in a man's heart weighs it down, or as a footnote says, depresses him.
But a good word cheers it up.
A good word can come from a fellow believer who is motivated by God's spirit and guided by his word.
When the Apostle Paul was alone in prison, he prayed for encouragement,
and Jehovah provided what he needed to cheer him up.
With a heart full of appreciation, he said at Colossians 4.11,
that my fellow workers have become a source of great comfort to me, or a strengthening aid.
What can you do if you feel weighed down or imprisoned by anxiety?
Like Paul, pray for encouragement.
Pray for someone you can talk to, someone you can trust with your feelings.
The answer to your prayer may be an elder or a mature Christian brother or sister.
But what if it's difficult for you to open up to others and confide in them?
Try the advice in the March 1st, 1997 Watchtower article,
Are you afraid to trust others?
When confiding in someone, it says, reveal your concerns gradually.
If he or she responds in an appropriate, sympathetic, and discrete way,
you might then try disclosing more.
Even if it takes some effort, never underestimate the power of our brotherhood.
Jehovah can use a fellow worshiper to ease your mind of anxious concern.
Even at times when there's no one to talk to, we can let the experiences,
like building music and talks on JW broadcasting, be like an encouraging hug from a trusted friend.
Yes, when we make the effort, we give Jehovah something to bless.
Jehovah can help us conquer the seemingly incomparable.
That may not mean that we'll completely eliminate anxiety, but we can learn to take control.
How? Remember our four ways.
First, rely on Jehovah and take one day at a time.
Second, pour out your heart to Jehovah in earnest, specific prayer.
Third, read and meditate on God's word.
Let Jehovah speak to you.
And fourth, share your feelings with a trusted friend.
With Jehovah's help, you can deal with anxiety one day at a time.
Earlier, I read a quote from the sister who described anxiety as a monster living inside her.
I'm so pleased to say that the sister who wrote that letter about her anxieties is actually here with us in the studio to tell us more about her experience.
This is Jordan Williams and her husband Robert.
Thank you so much for coming here to share with us your battle with anxiety.
Can you elaborate on that please?
I feel ashamed of my anxiety.
I feel like there's something wrong with me and I feel guilty about that.
I feel like I'm letting Jehovah down by feeling anxious and that I'm even being disobedient to Jesus when he says stop being anxious, but I just can't.
Thank you for sharing that.
Robert, what do you do to help Jordan battle this anxiety?
It's a monster that sometimes a very stubborn monster that won't go away.
Remembering that, remembering that it's not her fault that helps me be more compassionate, caring, listening when she's explaining these anxieties that I may not completely understand.
Jordan, are there other practical things that help you battle anxiety?
The single biggest help is walking with Jehovah every day.
I mean that literally.
I'll wake up in the morning, super anxious and I can't breathe and my chest is tight and I'll get up and I'll read the chapter of the Bible that the daily text comes from.
And then I'll go on a walk and talk to Jehovah for an hour and I try to use the model prayer as an outline.
So I'll talk to Jehovah about his name and how I feel so privileged to have that name on me.
And I'll talk to him about his kingdom that's going to solve all of these problems, including anxiety.
And I'll talk to him about his will and specifically what his will is for me that day.
And most of the time, those three things cover the things that were worrying me.
But if there is another thing, I'll talk to him specifically about that.
What a nice walk you have with Jehovah.
Are there other things that help you deal and battle anxiety?
Personal study projects help a lot, especially if they don't have anything to do with anxiety.
If I do a study project on the spiritual suit of armor or the ransom, it kind of distracts the anxiety monster.
So my heart can calm down.
And then these pearls of wisdom will come from Jehovah and they can get in.
And if some of those pearls are actually just what I need to deal with my anxiety.
Are there specific things that help you?
Yes. I made an anxiety tab in the personal study section of my study Bible on my tablet.
And I collect scriptures and comments that really help with my anxiety.
For example, in 2014, there was a regional convention talk about Matthew chapter six and six specific things that combat anxiety.
And it made me think of like the 12-step program to overcoming addiction.
This is the six steps to overcoming anxiety.
What are those six steps?
The first one is to help those in need and then pray a lot to be forgiving, not to be hypocritical, to store up treasures in heaven,
and then to focus on spiritual matters.
So when we got back from the convention, she took those items.
She wrote them down and put them on magnets and put them on our refrigerator.
I try to do each one of those six things every day.
And when I accomplish one, I'll turn the magnet so I can see what I still need to work on.
So when I come into the refrigerator in the morning, if the magnets are turned, we know where she's at.
If they're not turned, we know we're in trouble.
It's a bad day.
Time to do something else.
So what can others do or say that would be helpful to those going through anxiety?
For the friends, it's really nice when they're understanding and non-judgmental and respect my privacy.
That's really helpful.
And when they don't freeze me in time, decide that, oh, she's anxious and this is how she's going to be all the time.
I even forget that Jehovah approves of me.
So reminding me of that, reminding me that the things that I do to please him are successful.
And maybe even reminding me of things that I've accomplished for Jehovah in the past.
You know you should tell Ron about your broken dish.
Oh, yeah.
Yes, I'd like to know about that.
So I just found out about this Japanese art called Kinsukuroi.
And it's basically taking a broken piece of pottery and fixing it
by putting it back together with gold or silver lacquer.
And the concept is that the piece is more beautiful for having been broken.
And that really resonates with me because I do feel broken by anxiety.
But Jehovah gave Jesus as the ransom.
And that ransom is just pure gold.
And he can take all the broken anxious little bits of me and put me back together.
And maybe I'll even be more useful to Jehovah for having been broken.
That's very precious.
Thank you for sharing that.
Are there other things that help you deal with anxiety?
I've learned to recognize when anxiety is clouding my thinking.
And I'll ask him, can I borrow your brain for a minute, please?
So what we did is we went and purchased a whiteboard, put it in my office.
And sometimes we'll go to the whiteboard and write out all the anxieties that she's dealing with.
As we're writing them out, sometimes we realize those are yesterday's anxieties.
And they've been cared for.
So we can erase those from the board.
Some of them are from tomorrow.
And so we don't want to borrow those and bring them today.
That's tomorrow's anxiety.
And some anxieties can be grouped in little clusters.
And you can realize the root is here.
Let's focus on that.
I fight anxiety every single day.
And anxiety is constantly changing its tactics.
So I have to be adaptable.
But Jehovah never leaves me to fight anxiety alone ever.
I don't understand what I've done to merit all of his attention.
But I do realize that I don't need to understand why he loves me.
I trust him and he never lies.
So I just need to accept it when he shows me that.
We appreciate you sharing those personal feelings.
And again, we know that Jehovah and Jesus are so proud of you.
And we know that those who are listening into this interview
will benefit so much from listening to your personal expressions.
Thank you very much.
Anxieties can surface at any time in our lives.
Even when we're very young.
Imagine, though, if the stress of growing up in this system
was made worse by a chronic disorder.
One that made anxiety feel impossible to overcome.
We'll be encouraged by the experience
of Brother Steve Dott, who never gave up on Jehovah.
See if you can identify what has helped him cope one day at a time.
My name is Steve Dott.
I was born in 1988 in Darwin, non-territory.
When I was eight years old, I realized that life was getting very difficult for me.
I was diagnosed with ADHD.
I obsessive-compulsive disorder, Tourette syndrome.
And on top of all of that, I was diagnosed with severe anxiety as well.
My mum said this affected the entire family,
because I would repeatedly yell out goodnight to each individual person in the family.
And on top of that, I used to constantly go around the house,
checking the locks and the windows.
My school life was the hardest thing I'd ever had to deal with.
My school was approximately 500 metres from my home.
It would take me at least two hours to get to school,
because one of my obsessions was there was cracks on the footpath.
And if I stepped on one, I'd have to go all the way back home and start again.
I found life to be a constant struggle.
And as I got older, it only got worse.
Even at 10 years old, I decided that I wanted to end my life.
So it would make everyone in the family's life a lot easier.
But then we decided to use some medication, which eased my problems a little bit.
Despite having medication, life was still completely unbearable for me.
I had a constant struggle every day within myself.
I used to wash my hands hundreds of times a day.
I couldn't leave the home.
I couldn't get a driver's license.
I couldn't even get a job.
A major turning point in my life was my mum's unwavering faith in Jehovah.
She used to iron my clothes for the meeting and hang him on the door knob,
even though that wasn't ready to attend the meeting.
But what she didn't know was when my mum went to the meeting with my sister,
I'd get a Bible and I'd try and start to read it.
I also began to pray to Jehovah.
And then one day I thought, I'm going to give this a shot.
So I put my suit on, I got ready, and I went to the meeting.
When I went to the Kingdom Hall, I was absolutely terrified.
I was so nervous.
But when I got there, I saw an elder who used to come and visit me.
And he made me feel very relaxed.
And then the amazing welcome by the brothers and sisters.
It made me feel like I was part of Jehovah's organization again.
The scripture that really helped me was 1 Peter 5 verse 7,
because it says, while you throw all your anxiety on him,
because he cares for you.
So this made me feel like I had a very powerful friend
and Jehovah wanted me to throw my anxieties on him because he loved me.
On September the 4th, 2010,
it was my most important day of my life.
I got baptized as one of Jehovah's Witnesses
at Adelaide Entertainment Centre.
Well, now I serve as a ministerial servant.
I've had the privilege of giving public talks,
which is something I never thought I'd ever be able to do.
I completed Pioneer School after three attempts,
because the Pioneer School environment made me feel like I was back at school,
and made me have anxiety again.
So the third time I completed it,
and none of this would ever have been possible without Jehovah's help.
On the 6th of August 2016, I married my beautiful wife, Laura,
who helped me serve Jehovah,
and we can serve Jehovah every day together.
I, like the Apostle Paul,
still feel like I have a war inside me sometimes.
But definitely, Jehovah has never let me down.
Never give up on serving Jehovah,
because Jehovah will never give up on you.
Did you notice what Stang considered the turning point in his life?
It was the unwavering faith of his mum,
the warmth of the congregation,
and most of all, help from Jehovah.
He called Jehovah a very powerful friend.
That's so true.
Brother Dott overcame monumental challenges.
But is his struggle with anxiety over?
No. He said that like the Apostle Paul,
he sometimes still feels a war within himself.
Do you ever feel that way?
This month's music video reminds us that we can find peace and joy despite our burdens.
It's entitled each day has its own anxieties.
I know about the paradise under God's kingdom.
And I believe with all my heart,
the better days will come.
But sometimes in this life for me,
it's hard to see the things unseen.
I feel the love I know is there.
When my heart is in despair,
but I know Jehovah's need.
So I say pray from the hover,
take my mind on a strength that can relax.
I'm not a true friend who really cares,
has its own take one.
But tomorrow I've said my Freddie gave his son.
So never now keep trusting.
We're not alone for he is there.
We have his words of comfort and true friends who really care.
What an encouraging thought from that song.
Yes, true friends who share our love for Jehovah are invaluable.
We'll see that in this story from Japan.
Sisters Takaku Sato and he saw Kuwaku-i
have worked together as pioneers since 1957.
Let's learn how their friendship has helped them serve Jehovah with joy.
We are pioneer partners.
We've been working together for over 60 years.
In 1956, I was the only Jehovah's Witness in Nagano Prefecture.
It was long soon, but I applied for regular pioneer service.
Surprisingly, I was appointed as a special pioneer.
I was so happy that I found myself rolling around on the tatami mat floor
with the appointment letter in my hand.
That was the way I expressed my joy and appreciation.
When I was invited to serve as a special pioneer, I was sent to Nagano.
And that's where I met Hisako.
Takaku and I focused on our ministry.
When an isolated group was established, since there were no brothers,
I would wear a head covering and conduct a meeting.
Sometimes the outlines were in English.
We didn't understand anything.
But people were delighted to hear even just the scriptures
and went home satisfied.
And that strongly impressed me the power of God's Word.
We were assigned to a territory in the city after that.
We found so many not at homes.
But we determined to meet people.
So we changed the times we preached and talked to people on the street
who were going to work.
We cherished even small opportunities.
When we had a chance to meet a householder,
we always tried to have a conversation that we could link to the next visit.
Before long, I had 10 Bible studies.
Takaku acts like she is cheerful,
but she's been fighting with various illnesses.
At times, it was so bad that I could not even go out in service.
I had a serious skin condition.
I could not bear to look at the illustration of Job in the magazine
and I covered it up with paper.
But Jehovah helped me to look to Job's example.
I learned that our endurance under trial would become praise to God.
I have often had health problems.
Just at one of those times, I received a letter from the branch.
It said,
what you're going to accomplish now may be limited.
However, think about all that you have done up to now to give praise to Jehovah.
About the people you were able to help learn the truth
and be joyful knowing that you have been used by Jehovah fully.
I couldn't stop crying because I really felt the care and concern
from the organization and from Jehovah.
Hisako also took real good care of me and prayed with me.
Our thinking and personality are different,
but we made efforts to talk things out.
Our heartfelt desire to want to serve Jehovah full-time
has always been the same.
For 60 years, we've enjoyed a truly wonderful life of service to Jehovah.
Jehovah has supported us in difficult times through the Bible,
the organization and friends.
I have tasted the truthfulness of the words,
when I am weak, then I am powerful.
When I said, my foot is slipping,
your kindness so Jehovah has supported me.
I can say that too.
Although we don't have energy nor ability,
we've been able to enjoy full-time service together up to now.
I'm really content now.
It's all thanks to Jehovah.
Like the Apostle Paul, our sisters cultivated singleness
and focused on full-time service to Jehovah for more than 60 years.
Yes, they face everyday challenges
and the extra ones that come with age,
but their heartfelt desire to serve Jehovah whole soul
brings Takaku and Hisaku real joy and contentment.
Whole-sold service for nearly 20,000 brothers and sisters
is a full-time assignment at Bethel.
What motivates them to reach out for this special privilege?
What blessings do they experience?
And what's the best way to prepare and qualify for Bethel service?
I'd like to invite my friend Patrick LaFranca
to discuss these and other questions.
Welcome, Pat.
Thank you, Ron.
How heartwarming it's been to see millions take their stand
for true worship.
Thousands more are joining us every week.
Jehovah is speeding up the in-gathering work,
and this makes us very happy.
But who will work to provide the Bible,
Bible literature and the audio and video publications
that sustain us spiritually and help us to accomplish our
kingdom preaching and teaching work?
Bethel is a unique place.
It's where mature Christians render sacred service to Jehovah
in close association with Christ's brothers.
They minister to the needs of our worldwide brotherhood
and support the preaching work.
The Bethel family is a group of dedicated,
baptized servants of Jehovah who live and work together closely.
So they experience in a special way what Psalm 133 1 says.
Look how good and how pleasant it is for brothers
to dwell together in unity.
We're very pleased to see that many have expanded their service
to Jehovah by making themselves available for the special
privilege of Bethel service.
Have you considered this as a goal?
Making yourself available for Bethel service is like knocking
on a door that leads to many other privileges of service.
Of course, to serve at Bethel requires a self-sacrificing spirit
and a willingness to serve wherever there is a need in harmony
with the attitude displayed by the prophet Isaiah in Isaiah 6.8.
Then I heard the voice of Jehovah saying,
whom shall I send and who will go for us?
And I said, here I am, send me.
When Isaiah learned about an opportunity to do more in Jehovah service,
he responded eagerly, even though he did not know exactly
what he was going to be assigned to do.
It was enough for him to know that Jehovah was extending an invitation
to serve in a special way and Isaiah wanted to volunteer.
The same spirit is shown by Bethel family members worldwide.
What especially motivates so many to serve at Bethel?
Love for Jehovah moves us to put kingdom interest ahead of
self-interest, as stated in the Proclaimers book, page 295.
This is not work in which they gain personal prominence or
material possessions.
Their desire is to honor Jehovah and they are satisfied
with the provisions made for them in the way of food, lodging,
and a modest allowance for personal expenses.
Are there any rewards that come from serving in this unique way?
Those who have offered themselves willingly for Bethel service
have truly been blessed.
The love and unity we feel here is incomparable.
It's not like in a company out in the world,
because here you can work with your friends every day.
Like-minded people have the same goals and support each other.
That is what you can feel here.
Maybe you are assigned a task that you've never performed before,
but there are many experienced brothers and sisters
who can help professionally as well as personally.
Whether it's the consideration of the daily text or watch
test study with the Bethel family,
listening to the practical, valuable comments of our brothers
and sisters is really refreshing.
You really feel that they love Jehovah
and their comments help you to feel the same.
Here in Bethel you have the best employer that there is.
Jehovah, no other employer is as grateful and considerate as he is.
So out of love for Jehovah, you're simply happy to give him your best.
Whenever I think about what has been done at Bethel,
publications are being produced and shipped.
Videos for our conventions are being made
and there is translation being done into so many different languages.
I keep getting goosebumps.
No matter what I can do here, knowing that by doing it
I'm supporting Christ's brothers makes me feel very, very good.
So how does a young person qualify for Bethel's service?
My parents raised me to have a spiritual focus.
So in the school holidays or as growing up,
our life revolved around the ministry doing spiritual activities
and it really helped us keep focused spiritually as a family
and helped me stay focused on the goals that we wanted to achieve.
I really enjoy reading and one day my dad just said to me,
why don't you read the Bible?
I know it sounds obvious but at that point I'd never read it
from Genesis to Revelation.
So when I've finished reading the Bible,
it really changed my thinking and my,
it really proved the truth to myself.
And this helped me to keep a spiritual focus
and it really was the first step in reaching out
and achieving the spiritual goals that I wanted to achieve.
In the congregation I was able to help out with doing the magazines
and the sound and the platform
and doing these privileges.
It really helped me to build a good work ethic
and given ways that I could give more to Jehovah.
So the elders used to work with me a lot on the ministry.
So when I'd get to feeling like, I can't do this
or this is too much, it's too overwhelming
or I'd never be able to reach this goal.
And elders showed me a scripture,
the Bible where Jehovah was encouraging Joshua to be courageous.
And that really impacted me that I was able to be courageous too
to reach my goal of Bethel.
So when I visited Bethel,
I saw that there were normal people
and they had so many good qualities that I wanted to imitate.
Very hospitable, very warm, very inviting.
That helped me to want to reach my goal so I could be like that.
To serve at Bethel, there are qualifications that need to be met.
You should have a deep love for Jehovah in the organization
which is demonstrated by living in harmony with Bible standards.
You must have a fine reputation as a spiritual person.
You should have respect for Jehovah's moral standards
of audience uncleanness and sexual immorality.
You should have a clean conscience before Jehovah
and be at peace with yourself and with Jehovah's organization.
Your dress and grooming should be exemplary.
Be fitting a Christian minister even during leisure time.
Styles that are fatish or extreme
or that identify us with undesirable elements of the world
are not acceptable at Bethel.
The applicant would not read, listen to or view any type of material
that is inappropriate for a Christian.
Such unhost some material certainly would include pornography,
debasing music, or any kind of entertainment that features sexual immorality,
spiritism, or violence.
Bethel applicants should be from 19 to 35 years of age.
Occasionally, there is an opening for someone over 35 years of age
who may have specialized skills that are needed at Bethel,
such as those with certain technical or medical experience,
translation skills, or building trades such as plumbing, electrical,
heavy equipment mechanic, or carpentry.
Those with such capabilities and training are welcome to apply.
In view of the unique demands of a full-time assignment at Bethel,
you should be mentally and emotionally sound, physically strong,
and able to work long hours.
You should be able to read, write, and speak the primary language of the branch territory.
This will enable you to communicate well with others serving at Bethel
to receive needed training and to work safely in the Bethel environment.
Bethel applicants agreed to serve for a minimum of one year,
during which time you will receive training for continued Bethel service.
With regard to secular skills,
we do not encourage individuals to obtain university education or training
with a thought that this will improve their chances of being called into Bethel.
The best way to prepare for Bethel service is to first serve in the full-time pioneer ministry.
The greatest need is for single brothers.
However, all who meet the qualifications, including sisters,
are encouraged to apply for temporary volunteer service.
Serving as a temporary volunteer at Bethel may open the way to other opportunities
to expand your service to Jehovah.
If you are interested in applying for Bethel service,
which application should you request from a member of your congregation service committee?
Since there are two types of applications available,
first, give careful and prayerful consideration to your circumstances.
Thereafter, decide whether you will request from the elders the application for volunteer program,
A19, which is available for those interested in serving on a temporary basis
for as brief as one week or as long as several consecutive months.
Or you may decide to request the application to become a member of the worldwide order
of special full-time servants of Jehovah's Witnesses A8.
This application is for those interested in serving on a long-term basis for one full year or longer.
If the branch committee determines that there is a need for your services,
they will decide where you can best be used, whether it Bethel or perhaps on the Theocratic Construction Assignment.
Submitting your application may open a door of opportunity to serve Jehovah
and his organization in a variety of ways.
Of course, not all of us who have such a self-sacrificing spirit
have the circumstances in life to serve at Bethel,
but we can encourage others who do.
Parents follow the example of God-fearing parents,
such as Hannah and Alcano,
who willingly made their son available for expanded Theocratic privileges.
Continue to place the goal of Bethel's service before your young ones
and stimulate their interest in the full-time ministry by your example
and your positive expressions.
If possible, bring them on a tour of World Headquarters in New York, USA,
or make arrangements to bring them on a tour of the Bethel in the branch territory
in which you live.
Such visits can help young ones to witness firsthand the work that's being done at Bethel
to promote Kingdom interest.
Elders, help young ones in your congregations
who have the potential to expand their service to Jehovah to meet the qualifications.
Jehovah continues to look for those willing to respond to his invitation
to expand their service to him.
As in Isaiah's day, he asks,
whom shall I send and who will go for us?
Will you answer as did the prophet?
Here I am, send me.
We encourage you to progress to spiritual maturity
and serve Jehovah whole soul.
In due time, you may qualify to serve at Bethel
or in another form of exciting Theocratic service
that permits you to use the health and strength that Jehovah's granted you
in an expanded way all to his praise.
Please be assured that we love you for the willing spirit you show
as you continue to reach out in Jehovah's service.
Thank you, Pat.
We hope that the information Brother LaFranca shared
motivates many more to have the prophet Isaiah's willing and self-sacrificing spirit.
So much of what Jehovah provides encourages us to keep busy with spiritual things.
For one, we're looking forward to our upcoming conventions.
The theme for this year is love never fails.
Would you like a preview of the program?
Let's take a look.
Love.
Is it gone?
Have we lost it?
Is it the possession of the wealthy?
The strong?
Or is it somewhere else?
At the 2019 Convention of Jehovah's Witnesses,
you will learn what real love is.
Where to find it, how to show it, and have it shown in return.
God cares deeply about you.
And he wants you to know that in this hate-filled world,
love can be found.
It is not lost, and that love will never fail.
As we've discussed, we should never underestimate the power of our brotherhood
to help us overcome worries and anxiety.
Our conventions are wonderful opportunities for us to encourage one another
by the hundreds, thousands, and tens of thousands.
And this year, we're especially excited that 24 international conventions
will be held throughout the world.
Use the opportunity to get to know more of your brothers and sisters
at the regional or international convention you attend.
To conclude this month's program, let's visit our brothers in Turkey.
Turkey is a nation of more than 80 million people and a land rich in Bible history.
Turkey occupies a unique geographic position,
bridging Europe and Asia.
It's here that Noah's Ark came to rest near Mount Ararat,
Turkey's highest mountain.
This is the land of the congregations in Colossi and Galatia,
as well as all seven congregations mentioned in Revelation.
The territories diverse and vast,
with a publisher to population ratio of one to more than 26,000.
In the capital city of Ankara, a single congregation is working hard
to reach almost five and a half million people.
Many congregations in Turkey focus on public witnessing with encouraging results.
Let's visit the Hattai congregation near the ancient city of Syrian Antioch.
Paul used Antioch as his home base for his missionary tours.
And it was here that the disciples were first called Christians.
Today, this part of Turkey is known for its food,
such as spices, herbs, fruits, and sweets.
In recent times, unrest and war had disrupted the region.
Some of our brothers and sisters have been so near to the conflict
that they could hear explosions from bombs and gunfire.
Despite these threats and anxieties,
the 56 publishers, including 11 regular pioneers
and two special pioneers, attend the meetings and preach without let up.
Our brothers and sisters in Turkey send their love and greetings
to the worldwide brotherhood.
Our love goes back to them for their zeal and steadfast faith.
From the world headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses,
this is JW Broadcasting.